before I get into it i'll just mention i
still get people sending me messages on
facebook trying to become my friends on
facebook and nine times out of ten i got
it right back to them and say look if
you want to get to know me you have to
pay one dollar to join patreon i do read
every single message posted within
patreon i do reply to those messages i
do meet those people and some of those
people have appeared in my channel so
two examples steven fate i did a one
hour podcast with him Stephen fate is a
lawyer in Washington DC so we had a very
political podcast trying to talk about
how to organize real vegan activism out
of this mess of eccentrics we've got
going on on YouTube but he's living
Washington DC and obviously involved in
law politics ecology and any happens to
be vegan case you hadn't guessed and I
just had mod vegan on the channel mod
also so I'm using mod as her first name
you know it's not a real name but when
mod vegan why just did a two hour
podcast with her that you can hear now
if you pay the 12 horn joint patreon but
all these people I basically met and
they communicated with me through
patreon and then I set up a skype
conversation with them or I replied to
their questions in this format here on
video and I'm really happy to do that i
get intelligent comments and questions
through patreon and i love making videos
that respond to that so in my
perspective for one dollar you get a lot
of entertainment value types of joining
my my patreon and hopefully you know you
can make connections with like-minded
vegans that could read to could lead to
real activism in the real world you
might be me it might be that you're
makin connection with me and you and I
together mentor going to st. posit in
the future but it could be one of the
other members like Stephen are like mod
vegan or what have you we've got a
limited talent pool here but we got a
lot of ambition and I like to see people
coming together at my patreon page as a
crossroads but yes currently patreon is
my only income on planet Earth that's
the only money I've got coming in I'm
going to a job interview in the next few
days and if I get that job then my
situation will change and you guys will
probably get more YouTube videos
complaining about how busy I am or my
life from the job and fewer videos will
start with me saying I just got back
from the gym I don't know I don't know I
don't know if that job would give me
great access to a gym or not we'll we'll
find out the hard way all right um so I
just got another message from Stephen
fate as I mentioned I've had appear on
the channel before and
Stephen says we like to think of vegans
on YouTube as being activists and
quotation marks I have to ask the
question is there another community of
self-identified activists promoting a
movement on YouTube that is able to do
so effective is who's asking are there
positive examples for us to learn from
on YouTube he goes on to say I'm
skipping some of his message here I
think it's clear that personality and
behavior based content is what drives
views and views equal money is it
reasonable to demand content from
YouTube personalities that its
substantive and pushes our social
movement forward or do we have to come
to terms the fact that YouTube has an
incentive structure that is
fundamentally misaligned with the
interests of veganism veganism as a
political movement alright this may be a
shocking and unexpected reply unless
you've read the title of this video uh
you want to learn for the best you want
to learn from positive examples don't
look at the political channels on
YouTube I think you've got to look at
things like comic books and video games
if you want to learn from which
community digital community not none of
these are real communities i hate this
use the word community but if you want
to learn from a community on YouTube
that's using this medium to its utmost
that's really getting a lot of ashes
it's really getting positive outcomes
that's really making meetings and
conventions and things happen in real
life that may be in some cases raising
tens of thousands of dollars through
Kickstarter or raising millions of
dollars to start a new film project or
what have you I think you got to look at
comic books and video games if you
compare the way comic book groups and
videogame groups make use of YouTube I
think it's really easy to say that
they're beating the hell out of vegans
and most people don't even think of
making that comparison in the past I've
made the comparison to some of the kind
of soft political groups like t YT t YT
is also known as The Young Turks and
their political arm is called Wolf Pack
that's a political movement against
corruption and graft in American
politics against donation driven
political campaigns United States trying
to get new laws passed for that reason
okay we can learn some things from tyt
from The Young Turks I think we can
learn a lot more by looking at the
success of let's just talk about comic
books for a minute as an example um
you can find websites very easily by
googling right now that gave you the
total number of sales figures for every
comic book in the last month I think
there are about two months behind but
you know month by month they upload
those economic statistics those are real
statistics I think if you look through
those lists you will be shocked look at
a few different months from the last
couple of years you might by accident
get one month at a really high sales
figures the many of the mainstream
big-name comic books like Wonder Woman
comic books that are not trying to be
edgy artistic subculture comic books
mainstream comic books are selling only
20,000 copies or struggling to sell
40,000 copies okay those are small
numbers you may think that the number of
vegans in the world is small it is the
number of people interested in veganism
though compared to the number of people
interested in a comic book that's based
on a major movie franchise or you know a
big name like this you may be shocked to
say hey you know what we are in the same
ballpark you know something else you
look at the number of viewers on a video
of discussing these comic books and it's
very easy to find examples of a
conversation between two comic book
experts that's here on YouTube and it
has more views than the actual comic
book being discussed right or it's if
you look at the sales figures for that
comic book over the last several months
maybe the comic book has only 40,000
copies sold or 20,000 depending on the
case um and this YouTube video has had
80,000 viewers ok so they have reached
the heavy in fact that's greater than
what they're commenting on and actually
like the English language basically
American Center a comic book scene and
obviously there's a separate scene for
France and Germany but we're basically
talk about english language mainstream
comic books it's not infinite you may
think oh those are massive cultural
entities those are properties that have
millions of dollars and millions of
viewers and millions of copies sold but
you look at the real numbers never give
them up they're just a couple of comic
books that are selling a hundred
thousand copies and then below that
there's this struggle to survive between
all the comic book selling 20,000 and
40,000 and you know the fear of
cancellation comes in
I think when they get down to about
20,000 copies can that comic book be
sustainable okay so actually comic books
are a subculture and there's not a lot
of money in the game I can provide a
link I read a really kind of scary
article and I shared it with my
professor at the time I had a professor
who's really interested in this stuff
the pressures interesting topic how do
you earn a living as a creative writer
but I found an article by a comic book
author and illustrator he did both the
the pictures and the end the text where
he talked about exactly how much money
here in per month exactly how many hours
he worked and he really was I'm not
joking suffering for his art and he was
not doing edgy artistic far out
subculture stuff he was he was making
comic books out of mainstream movie
properties and in trying to cater to a
mainstream mass-market audience okay
comic books are beating the crap out of
us and I think the comparison get
whether you look at comic books are the
TTI tyt the Young Turks or some of the
other more successful political
platforms um why is that they get people
together on camera and I'm alone on
camera I managed to interact with people
vice via Skype but there have been very
few videos in this channel with it's
another human being in the same room
with me they get people together who
know the material are passionate about
the material have informed opinions
about the material and then they engage
in analysis and discussion and exchange
of views I think they disagree they
managed to avoid doing what we see they
managed to avoid outright violence and
defamation most of the time probably a
lot of you know but exceptions that were
people who are comic book comic book
experts on YouTube beat each other up or
something I don't know about that I
haven't read comic books for 25 years or
something I'm you know that I'm not part
of the compo culture at all it's not my
thing but I can recognize the success
these people have had and bring together
people who are engaged in actively
reading the source material informed
opinion you know just a high level of
commitment to an engagement with the
issues and bringing fresh original
quality analysis to it in exchange of
views right that reflects therapies
reflects who they are as people to write
do we have that going on within veganism
I would love to boast to say that my
channel is is one of the few but there's
not a lot there's never enough and
that's not an unattainable goal so my
point here is can we make use of YouTube
better as a hub or as a crossroads to
bring together people of sincere
interested in engaging with concern of
these issues yes can we learn from other
political movements probably not we can
learn from the success of other
communities other niche markets that are
making use of YouTube to the utmost and
guys if you think this is a joke please
stop and think through how much hard
work goes into a comic book convention
how much hard work goes into having a
conference about a particular TV show
like Game of Thrones so Game of Thrones
also known as a song of ice and fire
every year just in the United States
there are so many conventions that were
people there's time and money in
organizing the convention but just the
time of money people take to travel the
convention if the convention is in
California that half the people are
flying there from New York if the
convention is in Colorado then
everybody's coming along again since
except for the two people who happen to
live in Colorado okay people are
investing time and money to get together
just to again I don't know if you want
the sense of community or not they're
not trying to save the world but they're
beating the hell out of us as vegans it
look at the vegan conventions that have
existed compared to comic book
conventions video game conventions or
something like fans of Game of Thrones
Song of Ice and Fire they're winning
we're losing and they're making use of
this medium to have a dynamic
galvanizing effect and all the people
who share those interests even though
they don't have a strong humanitarian
streak they don't have a strong
political agenda where ultimately what
they're doing has much more to do with
just entertainment and casual interest
so can we harness this medium to get you
know even more dynamism out of it yes
the potential is there let's make it
happen